<pre>
  CIP: 1
  Title: 
  Author: 
  Comments-Summary: 
  Comments-URI: 
  Status: 
  Type: 
  Created: 
  Superseded-By: 
</pre>

==What is a CIP?==



==CIP Types==

There are NUMBER kinds of CIP:

* A 

==CIP Work Flow==



==What belongs in a successful CIP?==

Each CIP should have the following parts:

* Preamble -- RFC 822 style headers containing meta-data about the CIP, including the CIP number, a short descriptive title (limited to a maximum of 44 characters), the names, and optionally the contact info for each author, etc.

* Abstract -- a short (~200 word) description of the technical issue being addressed.

* Copyright/public domain -- Each CIP must either be explicitly labelled as placed in the public domain (see this CIP as an example) or licensed under the Open Publication License.

* Specification -- The technical specification should describe the syntax and semantics of any new feature. The specification should be detailed enough to allow competing, interoperable implementations for any of the current platforms.

* Motivation -- The motivation is critical for CIPs that want to change the protocol. It should clearly explain why the existing protocol specification is inadequate to address the problem that the CIP solves. CIP submissions without sufficient motivation may be rejected outright.

* Rationale -- The rationale fleshes out the specification by describing what motivated the design and why particular design decisions were made. It should describe alternate designs that were considered and related work, e.g. how the feature is supported in other languages.

* The rationale should provide evidence of consensus within the community and discuss important objections or concerns raised during discussion.

* Backwards Compatibility -- All CIPs that introduce backwards incompatibilities must include a section describing these incompatibilities and their severity. The CIP must explain how the author proposes to deal with these incompatibilities. CIP submissions without a sufficient backwards compatibility treatise may be rejected outright.

* Reference Implementation -- The reference implementation must be completed before any CIP is given status "Final", but it need not be completed before the CIP is accepted. It is better to finish the specification and rationale first and reach consensus on it before writing code.

* The final implementation must include test code and documentation appropriate for the Bitcoin protocol.

==CIP Formats and Templates==

CIPs should be written in mediawiki or markdown format.

===CIP Header Preamble===

Each CIP must begin with an RFC 822 style header preamble. The headers must appear in the following order. Headers marked with "*" are optional and are described below. All other headers are required.

<pre>
  CIP: <CIP number>
  Title: <CIP title>
  Author: <list of authors' real names and optionally, email addrs>
* Discussions-To: <email address>
  Status: <Draft | Active | Accepted | Deferred | Rejected |
           Withdrawn | Final | Superseded>
  Type: <Standards Track | Informational | Process>
  Created: <date created on, in ISO 8601 (yyyy-mm-dd) format>
* Post-History: <dates of postings to bitcoin mailing list>
* Replaces: <CIP number>
* Superseded-By: <CIP number>
* Resolution: <url>
</pre>

The Author header lists the names, and optionally the email addresses of all the authors/owners of the CIP. The format of the Author header value must be

  Random J. User <address@dom.ain>

if the email address is included, and just

  Random J. User

if the address is not given.

If there are multiple authors, each should be on a separate line following RFC 2822 continuation line conventions.

Note: The Resolution header is required for Standards Track CIPs only. It contains a URL that should point to an email message or other web resource where the pronouncement about the CIP is made.

While a CIP is in private discussions (usually during the initial Draft phase), a Discussions-To header will indicate the mailing list or URL where the CIP is being discussed. No Discussions-To header is necessary if the CIP is being discussed privately with the author, or on the bitcoin email mailing lists.

The Type header specifies the type of CIP: Standards Track, Informational, or Process.

The Created header records the date that the CIP was assigned a number, while Post-History is used to record the dates of when new versions of the CIP are posted to bitcoin mailing lists. Both headers should be in yyyy-mm-dd format, e.g. 2001-08-14.

CIPs may have a Requires header, indicating the CIP numbers that this CIP depends on.

CIPs may also have a Superseded-By header indicating that a CIP has been rendered obsolete by a later document; the value is the number of the CIP that replaces the current document. The newer CIP must have a Replaces header containing the number of the CIP that it rendered obsolete.

===Auxiliary Files===

CIPs may include auxiliary files such as diagrams. Image files should be included in a subdirectory for that CIP. Auxiliary files must be named CIP-XXXX-Y.ext, where "XXXX" is the CIP number, "Y" is a serial number (starting at 1), and "ext" is replaced by the actual file extension (e.g. "png").

==Transferring CIP Ownership==

It occasionally becomes necessary to transfer ownership of CIPs to a new champion. In general, we'd like to retain the original author as a co-author of the transferred CIP, but that's really up to the original author. A good reason to transfer ownership is because the original author no longer has the time or interest in updating it or following through with the CIP process, or has fallen off the face of the 'net (i.e. is unreachable or not responding to email). A bad reason to transfer ownership is because you don't agree with the direction of the CIP. We try to build consensus around a CIP, but if that's not possible, you can always submit a competing CIP.

If you are interested in assuming ownership of a CIP, send a message asking to take over, addressed to both the original author and the CIP editor. If the original author doesn't respond to email in a timely manner, the CIP editor will make a unilateral decision (it's not like such decisions can't be reversed :).

==CIP Editors==

The current CIP editor is Luke Dashjr who can be contacted at [[mailto:luke_CIPeditor@dashjr.org|luke_CIPeditor@dashjr.org]].

==CIP Editor Responsibilities & Workflow==

The CIP editor subscribes to the Bitcoin development mailing list. All CIP-related correspondence should be sent (or CC'd) to luke_CIPeditor@dashjr.org.

For each new CIP that comes in an editor does the following:

* Read the CIP to check if it is ready: sound and complete. The ideas must make technical sense, even if they don't seem likely to be accepted.
* The title should accurately describe the content.
* Edit the CIP for language (spelling, grammar, sentence structure, etc.), markup (for reST CIPs), code style (examples should match CIP 8 & 7).

If the CIP isn't ready, the editor will send it back to the author for revision, with specific instructions.

Once the CIP is ready for the repository it should be submitted as a "pull request" to the [https://github.com/bitcoin/CIPs bitcoin/CIPs] repository on GitHub where it may get further feedback.

The CIP editor will:

* Assign a CIP number (almost always just the next available number, but sometimes it's a special/joke number, like 666 or 3141) in the pull request comments.

* Merge the pull request when the author is ready (allowing some time for further peer review).

* List the CIP in [[README.mediawiki]]

* Send email back to the CIP author with next steps (post to bitcoin-dev mailing list).

The CIP editors are intended to fulfill administrative and editorial responsibilities. The CIP editors monitor CIP changes, and correct any structure, grammar, spelling, or markup mistakes we see.

==History==

This document was derived heavily from [BIP-0001](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0001.mediawiki), derived from Python's PEP-0001.  Please direct all comments to the CIP editors or the mailing list.

==Changelog==

3 Jan 2025 - Intial Draft